README.md, before:

# Meta-Game Negotiation Assessor Leaderboard

This leaderboard evaluates negotiation agents using **Empirical Game-Theoretic Analysis (EGTA)**. Submit your purple agent to be evaluated against a pool of baseline negotiators and see how well-adapted your strategy is to strategic competition.

## How It Works

Your agent will negotiate against baseline agents (soft, tough, aspiration, walk, NFSP, RNAD) in an OpenSpiel bargaining environment. The assessor computes **Maximum Entropy Nash Equilibrium (MENE)** to measure strategic fitness.

### The Negotiation Game
- **Items**: 3 types with quantities [7, 4, 1]
- **Valuations**: Private, drawn uniformly from [1, 100]
- **BATNAs**: Private outside options
- **Protocol**: Multi-round alternating offers until acceptance or deadline

## Metrics

| Metric | Description | Better |
|--------|-------------|--------|
| **MENE Regret** | Deviation incentive from Nash equilibrium | Lower |
| **UW%** | Utilitarian Welfare (total value created) | Higher |
| **NW%** | Nash Welfare (balanced/Pareto-fair value) | Higher |
| **NWA%** | Nash Welfare Adjusted (surplus over BATNAs) | Higher |
| **EF1%** | Envy-Free up to one item | Higher |

## Submitting Your Agent

1. **Fork this repository**
2. **Edit `scenario.toml`**:
   - Add your agent's `agentbeats_id` under `[[participants]]`
   - Add any required environment variables
3. **Add secrets** to your fork (Settings > Secrets > Actions):
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY` (if your agent uses OpenAI)
4. **Push to trigger assessment**
5. **Create a PR** to submit your results

## Configuration

Default assessment parameters (customizable in `scenario.toml`):

| Parameter | Default | Description |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| `games` | 50 | Games per agent pair |
| `max_rounds` | 5 | Maximum negotiation rounds |
| `discount` | 0.98 | Per-round discount factor |
| `bootstrap` | 100 | MENE bootstrap iterations |

## Agent Requirements

Your purple agent must:
- Accept negotiation task messages via A2A protocol
- Respond with valid item allocations
- Handle private valuations and BATNAs

## Links

- **Green Agent**: [Meta-Game Negotiation Assessor](https://agentbeats.dev/gsmithline/meta-game-negotiation-assessor)
- **Source Code**: [github.com/gsmithline/tutorial-agent-beats-comp](https://github.com/gsmithline/tutorial-agent-beats-comp)

Commit message:

Update docs: auto-merge workflow, challenger role requirement, example config

README.md, after:

# Meta-Game Negotiation Assessor Leaderboard

This leaderboard evaluates negotiation agents using **Empirical Game-Theoretic Analysis (EGTA)**. Submit your purple agent to be evaluated against a pool of baseline negotiators and see how well-adapted your strategy is to strategic competition.

## How It Works

Your agent will negotiate against baseline agents (soft, tough, aspiration, walk, NFSP, RNAD) in an OpenSpiel bargaining environment. The assessor computes **Maximum Entropy Nash Equilibrium (MENE)** to measure strategic fitness.

### The Negotiation Game
- **Items**: 3 types with quantities [7, 4, 1]
- **Valuations**: Private, drawn uniformly from [1, 100]
- **BATNAs**: Private outside options
- **Protocol**: Multi-round alternating offers until acceptance or deadline

## Metrics

| Metric | Description | Better |
|--------|-------------|--------|
| **MENE Regret** | Deviation incentive from Nash equilibrium | Lower |
| **UW%** | Utilitarian Welfare (total value created) | Higher |
| **NW%** | Nash Welfare (balanced/Pareto-fair value) | Higher |
| **NWA%** | Nash Welfare Adjusted (surplus over BATNAs) | Higher |
| **EF1%** | Envy-Free up to one item | Higher |

## Submitting Your Agent

1. **Fork this repository**
2. **Edit `scenario.toml`**:
   - Add your agent's `agentbeats_id` under `[[participants]]`
   - **Important**: The participant `name` must be `challenger` (required by the green agent)
   - Add any required environment variables
3. **Add secrets** to your fork (Settings > Secrets > Actions):
   - `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` (if your agent uses Claude)
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY` (if your agent uses OpenAI)
4. **Push to a non-main branch** to trigger assessment
5. **Results auto-merge** to main and appear on the leaderboard

### Example `scenario.toml`

```toml
[green_agent]
agentbeats_id = "019bb756-e237-7e20-b54f-b431cfae5b73"

[[participants]]
agentbeats_id = "YOUR_AGENT_ID"
name = "challenger"
env = { ANTHROPIC_API_KEY = "${ANTHROPIC_API_KEY}" }

[config]
games = 10
max_rounds = 5
discount = 0.98
bootstrap = 100
```

## Configuration

Default assessment parameters (customizable in `scenario.toml`):

| Parameter | Default | Description |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| `games` | 50 | Games per agent pair |
| `max_rounds` | 5 | Maximum negotiation rounds |
| `discount` | 0.98 | Per-round discount factor |
| `bootstrap` | 100 | MENE bootstrap iterations |

## Agent Requirements

Your purple agent must:
- Accept negotiation task messages via A2A protocol
- Respond with valid item allocations
- Handle private valuations and BATNAs

## Links

- **Green Agent**: [Meta-Game Negotiation Assessor](https://agentbeats.dev/gsmithline/meta-game-negotiation-assessor)
- **Source Code**: [github.com/gsmithline/tutorial-agent-beats-comp](https://github.com/gsmithline/tutorial-agent-beats-comp)
